Let's solve a problem about the magnetic
field created by a current-carrying circular loop.
We're given a circular loop with radius 3 centimeters.
At a point 4 centimeters away from the center
along the axis, the magnetic field is 54 micro-teslas.
Our goal is to find the magnetic field at the center of the loop.
To solve this problem, we need two key formulas
for the magnetic field of a circular current-carrying loop.
For a point on the axis at distance x from
the center, the magnetic field is given by this formula.
And at the center of the loop, the formula simplifies to this.
We know the magnetic field at the point on the axis, so
we'll use the first formula to find the current in the loop.
Then we'll use that current in the second formula
to find the magnetic field at the center.
Let's first look at where the student solution went wrong.
The student used the correct formula for the
magnetic field at a point on the axis.
However, the student made a critical error. They wrote 24
micro-tesla instead of the correct value of 54 micro-tesla.
This error led to calculating an incorrect current, and
consequently an incorrect magnetic field at the center.
Let's now solve the problem correctly.
Let's solve the problem correctly, step by step.
First, we'll list the known values.
Using the formula for the magnetic field at a point on
the axis, we can find the current in the loop.
Substituting our known values.
Simplifying and solving for I times mu naught.
Multiply both sides by 250 times 10 to the negative 6.
Divide both sides by 9 times 10 to the
negative 4 to isolate mu naught times I.
Now we can use the formula for the
magnetic field at the center of the loop.
So the magnetic field at the center of the loop is 250 micro-teslas.
The correct answer is option A, 250 micro-teslas.
Let's visualize how the magnetic field changes with
distance from the center of the loop.
On this graph, the x-axis represents the distance
from the center along the axis, and the
y-axis shows the magnetic field strength in micro-teslas.
The magnetic field is strongest at the
center of the loop, at 250 micro-teslas.
As we move away from the center along the axis,
the field strength decreases. At 4 centimeters from the center,
it's 54 micro-teslas as given in the problem.
This graph clearly shows that the magnetic field at the center of
a current-carrying loop is much stronger than at points along its axis.
Let's summarize what we've learned from this problem.
First, the student made an error by using 24 micro-teslas instead of
the correct value of 54 micro-teslas, leading to an incorrect answer.
By correctly substituting the given value of 54 micro-teslas, we found
that the magnetic field at the center is 250 micro-teslas.
This problem demonstrates that the magnetic field is
strongest at the center of a current-carrying loop,
and decreases with distance along the axis.
The correct answer is option A, 250 micro-teslas.
Remember to always double-check your values when substituting into formulas,
as small errors can lead to significantly different results.